Before starting Zowe an instance directory must be created.
This holds configuration launch parameters and is also well as where runtime logs are collected.

Navigate to the runtime directory's /bin folder and execute the script zowe-configjure-instance.sh

The script takes a single named -c argument that specifies the path location for where the instance directory should be created

In this video we're going to place it in my home directory /zowe-instance

As the script executes feedback is echoed to the terminal showing its progress.  

When the script finishes the message "Configure instance comleted" will be shown.

This lets you know the next two steps

Check the instance.env file that contains the launch parameters.
Having done that the script zowe-start.sh to start Zowe.  

Within the shell if you navigate to the instance directory, you can see the instance.env file.

You can use any editor such as ISPF or VI, and for this video we're going to use the Zowe Explorer

Set the KEYSTORE_DIRECTORY value to be the USS path containing a file zowe-setup-certificates.env.

If you haven't already created a keystore directory check the documentation chapter on how to configure certificates.

For this particular Zowe launch video I created a self signed certificate in my home directory / zowe-keystore.

Another parameter that we'll change for this launch is the ZOWE_PREFIX.  
This allows us to control the name of Zowe's started task, so adding a J means it'll be called ZWEJ1SV

To launch Zowe from USS, open the shell and execute the script zowe-start.sh in the /bin folder of the zowe instance directory.

This will echo the name of the started task, in our case ZWEJ1SV, together with the command that was used to start the proclib itself.  

To monitor progress of the Zowe started task you can use SDSF, 
   although for this video we're going to use the Jobs view in the Zowe Explorer
   using a filter of ZWEJ*

Check STDERR for any errors.  This file should be empty in a clean launch.
As the different components that make up Zowe are started messages will be written to STDOUT
The message ZWEAM000I is written when each of the API Mediation Layer services have finished started, 
    so check to see that there are four of these, one for the caching service, 
    one for API Catalog
    one for API Gateway
    and one for API Discovery

One of the last messages written is ZWE002I which indicates that the Zowe Desktop has registered itself successfull with the API Mediation Layer's discovery service

We're now ready to test Zowe

In order to test Zowe we'll need to know the GATEWAY_PORT specified in the instance.env file,
   in our case 7554,  as well as Zowe's host name and IP address.

From a web browser enter Zowe's host name or IP address, the gateway port 7554, and /ui/v1/zlux
This will launch the Zowe desktop running behind the API Mediation Layer

Log into the Desktop with your TSO user ID and password

From the desktop test some of the applications,
    for example the File Editor




